Webscraping and NLP Analysis - (Identify and cluster documents based on Article's themes)

Firstly, I pulled the data from the given URLs using the API end-point,  with the help of libraries like Requests, Beautifulsoup, and extracted the exact content. Then, as a part of data pre-processing, punctuation marks, stopwords, redundant spaces, and digits were removed. Also, the content was stemmed and lemmatized.  To identify the keywords that give the crux of the article and to group similar articles, the following two approaches were applied: LDA and K-means. 

Initially, a bag of words (BoW) model on the dataset was created. For each article, using the doc2bow method from the Gensim library, a dictionary reporting how many words and how many times those words appeared was created and then a TF-IDF model was created on top of the BoW vector. Following this, implemented LDA using TF-IDF vector which allows exploring the keywords and its relative weight in each article. pyLDAvis was used to interpret the words in each topic and that information is extracted by the package from the fitted LDA model. pyLDAvis helps to interpret how important the word is and its relevance in each topic. From around 2000 root words, pyLDAvis uses PCA to show the topics that are clustered together, indicating the similarity between topics.

For example, as a result of this model, it could be seen that the topics how-wigan-drove-change-by-putting-people-first , does-free-public-transport-actually-work and a-small-town-solution-to-digitisation are closely related to each other and the saliency of each topic could be seen on the right side of the visualization tool.

My findings :
The articles a-case-for-copying-brazils-refugee-policy,building-safer-and-more-resilient-cities-in-the-philippines and does-free-public-transport-actually-work comes under cluster 0 which is centered under the theme "public", "people", "service", "increase" and "like".
The articles smart-cities-are-nothing-without-their-citizens,what-joining-local-government-feels-like-for-a-junior-public-servant, local-councils-citizens-collaboration , local-councils-citizens-collaboration  and the-city-of-the-future-is-built-on-open-data coming under cluster 1 are focused on words like "public","govern","work","local",and "develop".
The articles what-ghana-can-teach-us-about-integrating-refugees,no-city-limits-how-data-is-helping-shape-urban-health-policy and regional-australia-needs-immigrants-but-forcing-them-there-isnt-the-answer comes under cluster 2 which seems to have a lot of words in relevance to community-related work.
The articles how-climate-change-adds-fuel-to-the-refugee-crisis and how-wigan-drove-change-by-putting-people-first are centered on "chang","peopl","help","need" and "work". The remaining 2 articles belong to Cluster 4 and it is centered on "servic", "work", "govern", "public" and "need".

Although the main theme of each article is not completely based on the listed keywords, the keywords under each cluster have its relative importance to group these articles into one. So, this model could be worth further investigation with large datasets for better clustering accuracy.
